week 3 content and homework (#200)
HackYourFuture/databases: Week3/README.md

# Lesson 3: Database design, normal forms, SQL injection

Objective: This class invites students to discuss Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD).
Students should be able to explain their choices of entities, relationships, attributes etc.
SQL injection should be explained with a demonstration (with a simple JS client).
Concepts of database transaction, ACID properties, normal forms should be introduced with

> examples / live coding (creating a transaction, committing and rollback-ing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
examples / live coding (creating a transaction, committing and rolling back).
```

Author: I used rollback-ing on purpose because rollback is the actual command in mysql which rolls the transaction back.

- [What is a Database Foreign Key](http://databases.about.com/cs/specificproducts/g/foreignkey.htm)

## Topics to be covered

### Entity Relationship Diagrams
    - Associative entities from many-to-many relationships
    - Boolean attribute instead of a table

### Normalization
Database Design following normal forms as a convention.
These normal forms build incrementally.
E.g. The database is in 3NF if it is already in 2NF and satisfied the
rules for 3rd normal form. Read [here] (https://www.studytonight.com/dbms/database-normalization.php) for more details.

#### 1NF (4 rules)
* Rule 1 : Single valued attributes (each column should have atomic value, no multiple values)
* Rule 2 : Attribute domain should not change
* Rule 3 : Unique names for attributes / columns
* Rule 4 : Order does not matter
#### 2NF
No partial dependency. (i.e. no field should depend on part of the primary key)
Example
```
Score table (student_ID, subject_ID, score, teacher)
Subject table (subject_ID, subject Name)
```
#### 3NF
No transitive dependency (i.e. no field should depend on non-key attributes).

#### Boyce Codd Normal Form (3.5 NF)
for any dependency A → B, A should be a super key.

#### 4NF

> No multi-value dependency.

Reviewer: These normalization rules as formulated here seem a bit much for our students to take in at this stage. An alternative might be to consider explaining what normalization is and why it is important in simpler terms here and link to some external resource for details?

Author: I provided the link for detailed description for each normal form. And we discussed the forms in class. So I only summarized them here.
